docs(guidelines): add dependencies guidelines (#4040)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js: GUIDELINES.md

# OpenTelemetry JS Code Contribution Guide

This document outlines the essential guidelines for contributing code to the OpenTelemetry JS repository. These guidelines are designed to ensure consistency, stability, and the highest quality of code across the project.

## Dependencies

This section refers to `"dependencies"` and `"devDependencies"` entries in `package.json` file.

> It's important to note that not all libraries follow the `semver` convention, and those who do, might occasionally introduce breaking changes due to human errors (like putting breaking API changes in a patch version).

Reviewer: Some rewording, added a sentence that allows us some wiggle-room in case we need to work around this. :slightly_smiling_face: 

```suggestion
> [!IMPORTANT]
> Not all libraries follow [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/). Even those who do might occasionally introduce breaking changes due to human errors. Exceptions to the guidelines in this document MAY be granted by Approvers or Maintainers to work around this.
```

### "DevDependencies"

> `"devDependencies"` SHOULD be pinned to reduce the risk of autobreaking the build. Since we do not have the option of using the `package-lock.json` file (because the libraries are distributed without it), our control over the version our users will get is limited. By using pinned versions, we prevent potential disruptions caused by using unpinned versions such as `^1.2.3`, which might inadvertently lead to version `1.2.6` with unintended breaking changes.

Reviewer: Mostly editorial:

```suggestion
`"devDependencies"` SHOULD be pinned to reduce the risk of autobreaking the build. Since we cannot use the `package-lock.json` file (because the libraries are distributed without it), control over the version our contributors will get is limited. By using pinned versions, we prevent potential disruptions caused by unpinned versions.

**Example:** `^1.2.3` might inadvertently lead to version `1.2.6` which includes unintended breaking changes).
```

> As this behavior might leave our users with outdated libraries, we adopt `renovate-bot`. This automated dependency update tool proactively opens pull requests upon the release of new patch/minor/major versions. The complete configuration for renovate-bot can be found in [renovate.json](./renovate.json) file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> As this approach might leave our project with outdated tooling, we adopt `renovate-bot`. This automated dependency update tool proactively opens pull requests upon the release of new patch/minor/major versions. The complete configuration for renovate-bot can be found in [renovate.json](./renovate.json) file.
```

> ### "Dependencies of the same monorepo"

Reviewer: Hmm, maybe:
```suggestion
### @opentelemetry/* dependencies
```

> All packages of the same monorepo MUST have the same pinned version, as these dependencies are automatically updated on each release by lerna. For instance: all packages under `opentelemetry-js/packages` should consistently maintain the same version, as should those under `opentelemetry-js/experimental/packages`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All packages from the `@opentelemetry/` namespace MUST have the same pinned version, as these dependencies are automatically updated on each release by lerna. 

**Example:** all packages under `packages/` should consistently maintain the same version as should those under `experimental/packages/`.

An exception is granted for dependencies on `@opentelemetry/api`, which, if used by the package SHOULD NOT be included as a `dependency`. `@opentelemetry/api` SHOULD be included as a `peerDependency` instead. The version range of the `peerDependency` SHOULD reflect the minimum supported, and SHOULD NOT allow versions greater than the latest released minor version.
```

### Third-Party Library Dependencies

> Packages categorized as third-party and listed under the `"dependencies"` section (e.g., @grpc/grpc-js, @grpc/proto-loader, shimmer, etc.) should remain unpinned and utilize the caret (`^`) symbol. This strategic approach offers several advantages:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Packages categorized as third-party and listed under the `"dependencies"` section (e.g., @grpc/grpc-js, @grpc/proto-loader, shimmer, etc.) should remain unpinned and utilize the caret (`^`) symbol. This approach offers several advantages:
```

# OpenTelemetry JS Code Contribution Guide

This document outlines the essential guidelines for contributing code to the OpenTelemetry JS repository. These guidelines are designed to ensure consistency, stability, and the highest quality of code across the project.

## Dependencies

This section refers to `"dependencies"` and `"devDependencies"` entries in `package.json` file.
> [!IMPORTANT]
> Not all libraries follow [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/). Even those who do might occasionally introduce breaking changes due to human errors. Exceptions to the guidelines in this document MAY be granted by Approvers or Maintainers to work around this.

> ### "DevDependencies"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Development Dependencies
```

`"devDependencies"` SHOULD be pinned to reduce the risk of autobreaking the build. Since we cannot use the `package-lock.json` file (because the libraries are distributed without it), control over the version our contributors will get is limited. By using pinned versions, we prevent potential disruptions caused by unpinned versions.

**Example:** `^1.2.3` might inadvertently lead to version `1.2.6` which includes unintended breaking changes).

> [!NOTE]
> As this approach might leave our project with outdated tooling, we adopt `renovate-bot`. This automated dependency update tool proactively opens pull requests upon the release of new patch/minor/major versions. The complete configuration for renovate-bot can be found in [renovate.json](./renovate.json) file.

### @opentelemetry/* dependencies

All packages from the `@opentelemetry/` namespace MUST have the same pinned version, as these dependencies are automatically updated on each release by lerna.

> **Example:** all packages under `packages/` should consistently maintain the same version as should those under `experimental/packages/`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Example:** all packages under `packages/` should consistently maintain the same version, as should those under `experimental/packages/`.
```
